# Journey to Becoming a Data Scientist Progress
Update blog to post my progress throughout learning how to code and becoming a data scientist/engineer

# Progress until 11/10 and Future Plans

Hello future me. I began learning python in July 2024, a couple months after I graduated college. Data is something that fascinates me and I really wanted to make something of myself in the data world within my industry of chemical engineering. So I began to take the CS50P class from Harvard University and it took me a while to complete. I was distracted from trying to find a job in this grueling market and also hanging out with friends and enjoying my last months before working in the real world.

Day by day, I slowly coded little by little and I didn't find much progress/success. I found myself focusing more on getting a job then the whole coding thing, which has been an issue within myself from committing to habits. But after I found a job and moved down to Richmond, VA for work, I slowly acccumulated more and more free time since I was living in a new city with nobody to talk to.

After realizing that, I started to pick up coding again, and completed the CS50P course. I did all the problems sets within the lessons, and they took me a long time to complete. My method while watching the lectures was the following: 

1. Take notes and pause the video when trying to read/understand the code
2. Rewatch a clip of what Dr. Malan said to really grasp the concept
3. After finishing the lecture, taking time to tackle the problem sets even though they took me hours at hand

After finishing CS50P, I began to watch a lot of python videos just on different techniques that build off of what I learned. And after a little while, I started to research different roadmaps to how I can become a data scientist. The main skills that I found that I should be learning were Python, Pandas, SQL, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Excel, and Tableau. To me, all of these seemed reasonable because I have a backround in engineering and already have mastered problem solving at hand. For me, the difficult part was teaching myself everything within a certain time frame.

I felt like I knew python well and understood the language better than most beginners just because I've already learned how to problem solve, so that's why I skipped doing small python projects and went straight to pandas. I found Luke Barousse's Data Analytics in Python video on YouTube, and went through that pretty quickly while applying the same method I did with CS50P: stopping the video to understand/grasp concepts, doing example problems, and reading over code to understand what I'm actually writing.

Now, the next steps is to practice more with pandas and apply my knowledge with datasets from Kaggle and practice this business mindset of grabbing data from somewhere (Kaggle), processing it, cleaning it, and getting insights from it. That is what's in store for the next month so I can get a really good sense of data analysis with Python.

After that, my next steps are learning SQL, and this is my roadmap for that:

1. sqlbolt.com (first 12 free lessons)
2. DataLemurs 30+ free intro + intermediate SQL tutorials
3. Intermediate lessons on mode.com SQL tutorials
4. Danny Ma's 8 week SQL Challenge
5. 60+ real SQL Interview Questions

After doing that, I will start projects with getting data using SQL and then analyzing it with pandas/python/matplotlib. That is the plan for now, and I expect to be done with all of that around February/March, depending on how long I want to spend doing side projects and really implementing what I learn from tutorial hell.

Then, to stretch out much further, I will begin machine learning and start with fundamentals of statistics. Back to the basics. I will practically take a statistics course and learn all the advanced statistics techniques/methods until it really implements into my brain. Then to add to that, maybe some Linear Algebra but only the important topics. After that, which should take probably about a month of two, I will take the Machine Learning course from Harvard University as the first steps to learning. I have accumulated so many Machine Learning resources so far so all I need to do is go through them and see what I can make of this. There is so much to learn with Machine Learning, but I promise to start that next year no later than July 2025. I need to give myself time to learn statistics beforehand since that is the barebones of Machine Learning.

I will keep this blog updated weekly/monthly (whenever I remember) and see my progress grow into something I can be proud of.

# Progress 12/10

So this past month has been great for learning, especially with data analysis. I found more and more resources on different datasets and learning opportunities, such as Datawars, Kaggle, and different GitHub repos that have weekly datasets with business questions tied into them. Slowly but surely I am chugging along, but I don't want to rush things. I know I said I should be going into SQL atleast by the end of the month, but I'm not sure if I will get there. It all depends on my motivation during the holidays and throughout the new year, but I will try and make it a priority everyday to practce atleast an hour since I will have a bunch of free time at home.

Otherwise, I am pretty confident with using beginnger pandas techniques and plenty of graphing techniques, but now I want to focus on groupby, pivot tables, and hammer down different seaborn graphing methods with unique datasets. After being comfortable with up to an intermediate-ish level of all of that, then I will continue onto SQL (hopefully by the beginning of the new year). I will check back in with the new year and give my short term and long term goals that I hope to achieve throughout the new year.

# Progress 1/6

It's a brand new year and I am ready to continue my coding journey. Over the break, I didn't get as much coding done as I wanted, but that is okay since I spent a lot of the time catching up with friends and family which is more important to me. After some thinking, I developed a couple of coding goals for 2025. One of them is to be able to have learned enough information to apply for a data analyst/scientist job by the end of the year. I want to have a more than intermediate understanding of SQL, and a pretty good understanding of machine learning techniques. The second big goal is to find ways to apply my coding knowledge into my job. Since I am rotating out of project engineering into the lab, I feel like there are so many data opportunities there and I can try and apply the things that I am learning with SQL and maybe even machine learning later on to the data provided in the lab.

As of where I am at coding wise, I just finished my pandas journey today (1/9) and I believe I have a solid understanding of data cleaning and data visualization using matplotlib. I know how to use the bulk of pandas but I don't understand the unique functions that aren't necessary day to day. I can do the job of someone grabbing data, cleaning it, and doing an EDA for most datasets. I did a bunch of practice with datasets on DataWars, and I will go back to pandas stuff after I get a great understanding of SQL.

As for SQL, I am ready to begin and the first steps I will take is to follow DataLemur's 30 day SQL roadmap but take it slower to try and understand it more. I found some good websites that have plenty of resources, so I am not too worried about running out of information. Then after I get through most of these websites, I can start watching some YouTube videos on SQL practice problems/interview questions. I have another website called Stratascratch and it has a bunch of SQL interview questions (also DataLemur too), so that will be something I can practice for a while after I get a really good understanding of the language. And also, I can try and apply the language to my job too with some smart P&ID option that somebody was mentioning that my company had a while back.

I know I said before in this progress journal that I should be done with SQL by February/March. This is definitely possible if I keep at it everyday just for atleast an hour. Some days I might spend more time because it's interesting to me, but other days I might just skip it since I am focusing on other things.

I will update back in a couple of weeks so I can get the hang of things with SQL and see how I feel about the language, how easy/hard is it to learn, and what I think my progress might be in the future. I am only saying that because I've mentioned before that I understood pandas pretty quick just from a coding standpoint because of my knowledge in problem solving as an engineer, so I am curious as to what the SQL language is like. Also, I am learning how to implement Git more, so I will be learning about that before I start SQL. I believe Git is a good foundation on keeping my progress throughout learning code.

# Progress 1/26

I am a few weeks into learning SQL and it has been going by very fast. I have finished all the intermediate lessons with DataLemur and Mode, and finished SQLBolt up to Lesson 12 based on DataLemur's 30 day roadmap for SQL. Now, starting on 1/27, I am beginning the advanvced section of SQL starting with Mode, then moving on to DataLemur. I tried looking at Danny's 8 week SQL challenge, but it seemed too difficult without knowing the advanced features of SQL. So I am beginning that and so far I really like SQL. It's definitely significantly different compared to pandas, and pandas can do a lot more with easier functionality in my opinion, but the SQL notation is quick to understand.

The websites I found, DataLemur and Mode, are really good learning wise since they provide examples that are relevant to the lesson and use real world examples. They also make you think and aren't direct copies from the lesson. So for these advanced lessons, I will really try and focus on understanding the material and take my time on the practice problems. Using my knowledge of problem solving will really help and also trigger my brain to learn quicker since it is struggling more and thinking rather than just copying down answers.

For the future of my SQL roadmap, I believe my February/March date of being somewhat finished with SQL is reasonable because I've been putting good time into coding. Some days at work aren't that busy, so I take advantage of that and code on the side. After learning these advanced topics, I am really going to take my time doing practice examples and looking at real life examples that data scientists do in their day to day jobs using SQL. I have some YouTube videos saved in my watch later that I will take a look at after I finish the lessons on the two websites mentioned above. Also, after the lessons are over, I will take a quick break and learn Git, so I can use VS Code to track my SQL learning when doing practice problems.

I am excited to learn more about SQL and how it could potentially apply to my job right now. My motivation is still high on learning how to code and I am eager to move on to machine learning, where in my opinion might be the stepping stone to bigger things in the future regarding my career goals.

One big thing I want to mention to end my what is turning to be monthly checkups is that I am proud of what I have accomplished so far. In the beginning of this journey, back in July 2024, I really got caught up in reading reddit salaries and what people need to do to become a data scientist. The biggest thing was that I was reading a lot but never taking action. I need to learn this and that, this is how much I could be making, these websites are what people recommend... on and on and on until I just closed my computer and did the same thing the next day. But I believe when I moved down to Richmond, I really took matters into my own hands and committed to it. I avoided tutorial hell and endless scrolling of data salaries and roadmaps, and made something of myself. And now, I know a whole coding language and a big library within it, and am learning a second one with heaping amounts of motivation to get through it and learn more. I am proud of stepping up and fixing things in my life that I didn't think were easy to fix, and I wholeheartedly believe that if I didn't take this job in Richmond, none of this would be happening right now. So to that, I say let's go learn some more SQL.

# Progress 2/13

It has been 2-3 weeks since my last update and I thought I would come back and update myself on my progress so far. I said that I would be beginning advanced functions in SQL and I am close to being done with them. I have one more day with DataLemur and then I can move onto Danny's 8 weeks of SQL challenge, which I hope to get done in less than a week. For that challenge, I am really going to test my skills and not rely on answer keys to understand what I am writing. I will go step by step into each query I write to fully grasp the concept.

But regarding the advanced functions in SQL, they aren't too difficult content-wise, but trying to understand practice problems right away and applying what I already know is a bit challenging. There are multiple answers for one query, and trying to decide which one to use is definitely a challenge. I'm currently having difficulty understanding when and when not to use window functions, but slowly but surely I will get there and understand the difference. Right now, I believe it's just if I want to show the rows that I am grouping by or not into the output query, but I'll keep at it and come back in the next update with a better explanation.

I am still highly motivated to write more SQL code and maintain this roadmap that I have. After I get through Danny's challenge, I saved an 11 hour YouTube video that works in BigQuery and Google Cloud Console with SQL, which I am going to go through since I can potentially apply this stuff to my job since we work with Google. That is my current plan and I've told myself not to get ahead and plan things that I "think" I am going to do in the next couple of months. I don't want to rush things and I want to grasp them fully. I even sometimes catch myself going back to basic python code since I get things stuck in my head at random points of the day. Then I open VS Code, and write some short python lines to explain what I'm thinking in my head.

One other small thing to mention is that I can feel myself holding back on really putting in hours into this. After work, I eat dinner, go to the gym, then have a lot of time to code and look at things (about 3-4 hours), but some days I am just lazy and want to watch YouTube and play Hay Day on my phone - basically distracting myself from doing what I should be doing. But often times I think that distracting my brain and relaxing it might be good for me, and I try not to stress it too much. I've kept a tracker of my social media intake from screentime and it is for sure decreasing from the day I started tracking it (January 1st, 2025). Eventually, I want to remove that urge to go on my phone after I come home from the gym and work on things that will better myself for the future.

Finally, I am still happy as to where I'm at in life. I talked to my college roommate about how this process takes time and some day I will be where I hope to be as a result of all this hard work. So that is my motivation. Work my ass off until I can say I did it. Where I can say I am proud of myself. Where I can prove to myself that even doing the smallest amount day by day will eventually bring you to the finish line. The finish line might be years away, but the only thing I'm focused on is tomorrow.

Well, that's enough for this update. Just got to keep chugging along. Next update in two weeks probably.

# Progress 3/3

Two and a half weeks has passed and I would say a good amount of progress has been completed. I finished the advanced learning part of SQL and have been digging into interview problems as a way of problem solving. I tried out Danny's 8 week challenge, but it seemed like it was just a lot of practice with the same dataset and repetitive tasks to the point that I didn't feel like I was learning anything. I've been doing interview question practice on DataLemur, and am almost done with the medium problems. After I get done with the hard problems, which should be quite soon, then I think I've decided to end my SQL learning for now. I believe I have a good understanding of the lamguage to where I can query what I want, and I don't want to overdue it right now since I don't have any actual experience in the field. Maybe I should start looking up different volunteer opportunities to use SQL in the real world to get more hands on experience, but that isn't something with high priority.

Next, I've got two things to watch/take notes on. First, is a statistics textbook that has a video series tied along with it from Stanford. After going through that and taking notes either on VS Code or just typed notes in a word document, I will take the CS50 Artificial Intelligence with Python course. Then, from there, Andrew Ngs machine learning course that's offered on coursera (I believe), and that is where my machine learning journey will begin.

I definitely want to refresh myself on python by going back into my notes from my intial CS50 Python course and get down all the things I forgot about that aren't just the basics. Also, I want to take that 4 hour git course that I've been holding off on so I can update my Github when learning Machine Learning. I feel like this is a big next step towards my future and it should be documented.

Timeline-wise, I am still on time with what I predicted -- being done with SQL by February/March. I don't think I rushed the process at all since the SQL lamguage isn't too difficult in itself, and I am proud of everything I've learned and the time I put into this. This will be a common theme for this journal because I really want to make myself feel that all of this is worth it, and some self hype never hurts to get towards an ambitious goal at the end of all of this.

Well, there isn't much else to update on. I guess I'll be back in another couple of weeks, which will be right before I go on my big trip to Japan and take a couple week hiatus off of coding as a whole.

# Progress 3/9

Not sure why I am updating on here, but I feel like it's better to give my thoughts weekly if I have something to say. I decided that I should be getting a better understanding with date functions since it'll apply well when I return back to pandas/python. Since I've learned joins really well, all of that can translate over and I'm excited to see how I can use join functions in pandas. But for the time being, I'm back on the Datawars website (one I used for matplotlib and pandas previously) to work on date functions and simple querying with joins/subqueries. I'll probably do some more practice with this for this week then watch the Git video before I head on my trip.

Once I can fully grasp date functions and apply them however I want, I feel like that will be a good stopping point for SQL and begin my journey with Machine Learning. As I said before in the last progress update, I will start to watch YouTube videos from the Standford statistics class then watch the CS50 AI with Python course. After that, Andrew Ng's course on machine learning then go through the resources I've collected from the past 7 months.

Also, something really exciting is that I found out that I can use SQL in my job. I will slowly but surely figure out some "ETL", if you even want to describe it as that, to extract information from SAP, clean it in python/pandas, and somehow export it to google cloud and get it into our design program sheets. This will help the applications team make better budgets for projects and this could potentially lead to more bids since they will have a more accurate number. Some NS Clarifier projects had budgets way over and this could be crucial since if we had the price half a million less, then we would be better contenders from the beginning when winning a project. I'm eager to continue this process and see what value I can provide.

Excited for the journey to continue. It feels like it just got started but I've learned so much already. See you next progress check right before my big 2 week trip.

# Progress 3/21

Well here it is, the progress check right before my big trip and biggest hiatus I've taken with coding since the holidays in December/January. Currently, I am learning how to use Git in the terminal and also through GitHub. I have finished part 1 of the course and now on part 2, looking forward to possibly complete it today (2 hours remaining). I think it will definitely benefit knowing how to use it when learning machine learning because I believe I will be on VS Code a lot.

I know I mentioned my path/roadmap for machine learning in the last progress check, but here is a more definitive list of how I'm going to tackle this:

1. Watch Introduction to Statistics video playlist saved by StatQuest with Josh Starmer to get a good recap of fundamental statistics that I learned in college/high school
2. Watch the introduction to statistics video playlist from Stanford which covers the Introduction to Statistical Learning (ISL) textbook which is fundamental to machine learning
3. Do the CS50 AI with Python course from Harvard
4. Do Andrew Ng's Machine Learning course as the last good reference to machine learning even though it might be repetitive (heard this is one of the best courses out there)

After doing all of these, I believe I will have a good stance on the machine learning topics to where I can stard making projects. I know I have a ton of videos saved in my watch later, so I can go through some of those if they deem appropriate. I've got too many in there and I need to remove them one by one since most of them are basic tutorials.

I am giving myself atleast 3-4 months to learn this stuff. Target end date will be around the end of July. This is where I need to put in the effort and really learn because this is the foundation of jobs like being a data scientist or analyst. My goal is to take better notes and really attempt to do problems without any assistance. Studying just how I did in school is the best method to learn, and starting at a problem for hours will help me with that. I need to find that motivation to stick with it and not give up, and after coming back from Japan it is going to be difficult.

Coming back from such a high of a trip will bring my dopamine receptors down since I will be seeking this high when it won't be there anymore, so a couple of off days doing nothing is important before starting this big task.

After machine learning stuff, I will focus on data visualization with Tableau, which won't take long, and bring everything together with real world applications. Then, if I'm comfortable with everything and can do interview questions with ease, the job hunt may begin. I don't want to get ahead of myself though, since it takes hard work and discipline to get there. So far I've done good, and I am still very excited for the future. I will come back with an update after my trip to do a small recap on my mindset going into machine learning.

That's all for now. See you in 2 weeks.

# Progress 4/14

Vacation to Japan was quite the trip. I'm glad I took a long break without thinking about coding for a while so I can put my mind in a relaxing mode without worrying about keeping up with learning new things. I did review Python code that I've done with the CS50P course and practice problems just for sinmple review, but nothing major. I also completed the Git course and have a good understanding of how Git works. I will start using it and maybe even learn Vim if I think it'll be useful in the long run whenever I begin using VS Code for machine learning problems.

One thing I learned about my trip was that it is better to live in the moment and enjoy the present rather than being updated on what's going on in the social media world. I connected with a lot of people on the street, at a bar, and even my best friend by asking vulnerable questions that I wouldn't typically ask the average human, and I'm glad I did. Also, I learned a lot about myself as a human. I realized that I can get arrogant sometimes when portraying my sarcasm and when people aren't in the best of moods, I should be comforting and understanding rather than try and make a joke to laugh it off because most of the time they don't want to hear that in the moment. It's better to show the person that you support them and are here for them rather than being sarcastic and not having any empathy for them. Another thing that I learned about myself was that I should think a little bit more before I act, because I tend to make a decision that I'm not 100% about. Think about the pros and cons, talk to people close to you, and understand the true reason why I go one way versus the other, because I don't want to be wasting my time thinking that I made the wrong decision in the long run since time is too valuable.

Okay, enough about the life lessons learned in Japan. Here is where I'm at now:
I am currently watching the Introduction to Statistics video by StatQuest with Josh Starmer and I am taking notes on things that I think would be important in the long run. I roughly calculated that there is 8 hours of video material, but with the pausing and note taking, I'm expecting that to be longer by a couple of hours atleast. Then, as I mentioned in the last progress check, I will watch the stanford statistics video, do CS50 AI with Python, then Andrew Ng's machine learning course. I'm excited to learn this new material and am motivated to do so since I have time at work and time at home as well after work.

And something big that I'm even more excited about is implenenting my SQL knowledge at work with SAP. I know I mentioned it before that there might be a possibility of this happening, and now that I requested access to SAP and will hopefully get it next week, I will put my main focus on that during work whenever I have free time (which is most of the time), and help my coworker Patrick improve his design program by exporting prices in a neat format. There has to be a way of exporting SAP to google sheets, but currently I only know how to do it with Excel. Maybe there is a method to creating a workflow/pipeline of data to get the right numbers in the right place, but lots of research and trial and error will go on to figure out something that will work in the long run. I am very excited to try this out because I tryly believe that this will be the beginning of my journey into the data world/transition into talking with more people in that field to give me the best opportunities in the future.

That is this progress check. I will check back in whenever I feel that it's necessary. Toodaloo.

# Progress 6/1

Wow, it's been a while.

I kind of forgot about updating this progress check and I'm sad I did because a lot has happened. First, work related, the SAP idea failed because I don't have access to as many things as I thought, so no more SAP idea for now. Also, at work, I am creating a model (hopefully) that can predict what chemicals to use for a jar test. I am cleaning/parsing data from Excel sheets right now and the hardest part is to find ways to make the data look like how I want it. For example, I didn't know that it's good to have the variable as the column instead of different tests as the columns, and I am slowly but surely learning the best ways to process/clean your data to fit machine learning algorithms.

Also, in the learning world, I am done taking notes on the Introduction to Statistics videos by Josh Starmer and am now watching the Machine Learning videos from him. The way he teaches things is really easy to follow and he gives good examples, so I figured I would stay with him instead of watching the Standford videos. And also, I think taking the AI Course by Harvard might be a waste of time, so I am going to go straight to the Machine Learning course by Andrew Ng and then probably Datascratch after for examples/practice while also trying to apply models to the thing I am creating at work. I enjoy learning these things and am getting close to learning the big models that people use day-to-day, so I am excited about that in the near future.

Now for the other updates in life. To be honest, I took another two week break from doing anything coding related with regards to learning. I did code at work with the tools that I am building, but that isn't related to machine learning at all. But still, any coding is good practice to see how functions work and how to make them better. But I don't really know why I took that two week break. It kind of just felt natural and life got in the way for a little bit, but I am ready to continue on this journey and apply my knowledge into this mini project that I am working on, which could turn into something big.

Also, in life, I am kind of stuck mentally. I really enjoy my time here in Richmond and I have met a great group of guys who I love spending time with. But I feel like life is getting monotone, and I want to start doing things out of my comfort zone. I don't know what that entails yet, but so far I just go to work, go to the gym, eat dinner, code, maybe play some minecraft, and go to bed on the weekdays. On the weekends, I cook for the week, I'll play tennis, and hang out with the friend group and drink. Maybe this is what being an adult is and it is hitting me hard, but I want to stay focused on the things that are important to me and find ways to bring happiness into my life. One big thing is getting a girlfriend, but I know trying to force something like that isn't smart because I really am looking for someone long term instead of just having a girlfriend for the time I am in Richmond.

But I am going home for the weekend this week and I am very excited because I can see the people who I am really close with again. I want to explain to them how I am feeling and get their input on what I should start doing to help myself find more small bits of happiness inside this monotone life. They understand me the best and hopefully I can get good answers from them, which I know I will. Also, it'll just be nice to be home and be in the comfort of my own home, which is something I haven't felt since Easter even though that was such a busy weekend.

Okay, no more life talk and time to keep up with my goal. As I've mentioned before in other progress checks, my target date is July to be done with machine learning stuff, but I still don't want to rush anything because this is definitely the majority of the work I might be doing in the future. So no need to rush/skip important things and practice that will eventually help me out in the long run.

New progress update next week after I return to Richmond. Adios.

# Progress 6/11

My machine learning progress is going great. I'm going through the YouTube playlist and taking notes on all these new machine learning concepts, and even doing some python with them (only slightly). They are starting to get more interesting since in the beginning it was just introductory topics, so I'm excited to keep learning about them all. For my project at work, it is moving along very swiftly as now I have one big dataframe with all the jar tests and one big dataframe with all the routines. Obvsiouly they aren't super clean, but I will try and separate the dataframes based off application, such as Phos Removal or Silica Removal, and see how I can combine the dataframes. There are still many ideas out there to do what I'm trying to do, and talking with our company AI has helped a little bit. I know there are some more machine learning concepts that I need to learn before I begin the machine learning part of it, but for not cleaning and parsing the data is the main priority.

Life wise, I went home last weekend for my sisters graduation and I had such a good time. It really is nice to be home once in a while just to see my close friends/family because they really help me bring out the best version of myself. I can ask them things that I'm struggling with and they will give me good advice since they know me best. And also, being home really wants me to move back, but it's a weird decision since I feel like I still need to build my life over here in Richmond. I've developed a great tennis group, I've found good tennis clients that will be consistent throughout the summer, and found a great friend group who have qualities and personalities similar to my friends back home. Is it really worth it to lose all of that to go back home and enjoy what I used to have? Will I feel the same if I go back home and have this "realization" that it's just all the same with a little extra piece of comfortability in my life? I don't want to do the latter and regret what I did because then it'll feel like I just hit an accidental reset button on my life. 

These are the tough questions that I really don't have answers to, but I hope to find the answers soon.

But coding wise, the grind continues. The July target date might not be totally reasonable due to me focusing a bit more on this project for work, so that might change which is totally fine.

New update next week.

# Progress 6/27

To be completely honest, I forgot about updating this. Learning has been going really good, and I finished watching all the videos up to Neural Networks with Josh Starmer Statquest. I want to wait to learn neural networks until I get a good understanding of all the classification models, regression models, and clustering techniques. I am reading the Hands on Machine Learning textbook now up until the neural networks chapter to get some coding practice and then I'll tackle them after. I kind of stopped by coding project at work because I had a lot of time to learn, and I'd rather get all this information in, take notes, code examples, and progress instead of just doing a project that I don't have direction in yet. Plus, my boss didn't want me to continue so I just stopped for the time being.

Regarding life, I went to Florida last weekend and I can truly say I haven't had that much fun in a while. It truly felt like home and I enjoyed every single second of it. My high school friends are so close to me and they bring out the best in me. I cried laughing so many times, we shared memories, went out to different bars, got barely any sleep, played golf, and had the time of our lives. I really needed something like that because of that lull I was feeling back a couple of weeks ago. And, with my trip to DC coming up this weekend with my college roommates, and my trip to Murrels Inlet to see my other college friends for the 4th of July, I really am excited to block off distractions in my life and enjoy what I have. Learn on the weekdays, grind out teaching tennis, the gym, coding, reading my cookbook, and take the time to relax and really enjoy the moment on the weekends until I have a nice break in July/August until football season.

After talking with some friends about my questions I had last progress update, I found that I am thinking too much about what my future might be and worrying that I'm not going to like it in a year. Sometimes, my thought process of overthinking takes over and forces me to make small decisions in my head that doesn't benefit me at all. I feel that slowing things down and analyzing what I'm thinking really helps me make the right decision and gets me in the right headspace. Also, talking to close friends for different opinions is a huge help, and I fully rely on them and thank them for the support because without it, I don't know where I would be right now.

So for the next month, I will be coding machine learning examples with what I am learning in the textbook and the notes I have already taken in my paper notebook to develop a better understanding of what each model does, how to choose the right one, how to clean data to perform better feature engineering, and output the best model for the data in front of me.

Off to DC. Update next week.

# Progress 7/7

Totally skipped last week's update but that's okay. The road to a data scientist is still contiuing, and I am on Chapter 4 of the textbook. The first 3 have been very helpful, with the second being a full on project and the third talking about classification techniques specifically. Now, on chapter 4, the focus is on training data and explaining more of the basic models such as linear regression, logistic regression, and gradient descent. I am not only following the textbook but reading online different examples of what certain things mean, and it has been helping a lot. I am waiting to do the examples at the end of each chapter until the end because I think that will be the most useful with all the knowledge that I learn throughout the book.

Regarding DC and Murrels Inlet, I also had an amazing time at both and enjoyed the time to relax the brain from what I was feeling a month ago. I am in a great headspace now and feel motivated to continue on my learning journey and keep up with my daily routines throughout the week. I also have a month and a half to relax on the weekends and not travel for a change, which I'm super excited about. Also, I found out that my rotation ends at the end of July for work, so that means I will hopefully be more busy and working with Patrick, who is the person I've been talking to for most of my rotation about coding. I haven't really done much for the lab in a while and it's been pretty boring/unmotivating to do other things in life since this is the majority of my day, but I am hoping the new rotation will open new doors for me and help my network my way into a new role in the future, even potentially with the data science team in France.

Otherwise, the learning continues and a new update will come eventually.

# Progress 7/14

New week, more coding.

I am now starting Chapter 8, which is dimension reduction using models like PCA. So far I've been learning everything I've taken notes on but just with python code which is good. After getting through chapter 9, I'll go back and take notes on the important functions to use, which is basically each model and their function/arguments. So whenever I want to use a model, I can just reference the notes and copy/paste while changing the arguments/parameters to what I want. I just wanted to go through the code one time through before I dive deep into the details and capturing all the functions because it would've delayed me big time if I just focused on one chapter at a time in the beginning. I think this is the best method for me, since I learn in a weird way but it's definitely not the most optimized for the normal human. I am comfortable and still eager to learn, so I will continue on.

I am going to Texas this week to support a lab, and even though it's going to be super long hours and a lot of work, I am excited and grateful to have the opportunity to travel and get this experience. Maybe it'll open my eyes up to something different/what happens in the field, but I definitely know that after this rotation is over, I can start enjoying my job a little more due to the shift in departments and working on the applications team. Also, being at the other office is going to be amazing for me personally because I'll have more people to talk to and interact with, which is something I am missing a lot in the lab currently. After this Texas trip, my rotation will basically be over and I'll be ready to transition over.

Also, I am going to work with gemini and see if predicting jar tests is possible. I need to see if grouping together the actual tests would help or if it's digging a hole that never ends. There needs to be a way to make sure the tests that are grouped together have more importance rather than just making it all scaled and applied to a random forest type model. Also, some jar tests include some chemicals that others don't for the same treatment objective, so I'm curious how that will work. Fixing missing values will be the tough part, but if I use gemini to walk me through and get ideas then maybe it's a possibility. But for now, in my head, it doesn't seem possible with the knowledge that I've accumulated so far.

Now, life wise, I'm not really sure how to think. Last week, I was feeling great after coming back from a couple of great weekends with people I love and was excited to continue this amazing coding journey that I'm slowly but surely becoming obsessed with. But this weekend felt a bit different, with my close friend group not completely giving me their full attention. Since I've been gone for 3 weekends in a row, I've missed a lot of things that have happened and feel a bit left out, but that is kind of part of life. Memories are going to happen with or without me, and I need to accept that. I need to accept that every time I hang out with people I might not have an amazing time. I need to appreciate having these guys as my friends and show their appreciation. Just one thing that is a big offputtiing is the way they switched on a new friend, going from thinking he is annoying and not wanting to hang out with him to now being his best friend and not leaving his side. It gives me a weird vibe and will be in the back of my head for the future because for me, I'm not sure if I like to surround myself with those type of people. And them all living close to each other doesn't help my case because I'm far away and need to make a decent drive to commit to hang out with them. Lastly, not inviting me to morning brunch and having everyone else go was kind of upsetting to be honest. I know they mentioned it before at the pool, but not even saying anything in the group chat and probably coordinating it outside doesn't feel good either. But like I said, it's something I can't control and just have to move on with life one day at a time.

Besides the friend group, personally I still feel like I'm missing something. I have had these amazing weekends spending time with best friends, I've been working a job that I currently don't like, I've been cooking a decent bit with more advanced meals, I've been coding a lot more often due to more free time, I've been teaching more tennis due to a new client, and I've been trying to keep in touch with my friends every week. Everything sounds great, no? I really does, and to me it sounds/feels good, but there's just something missing that I don't know how to find. It's like something I'm chasing but I don't know what it is. Is is the thought of wanting to move back closer to home? Is it the thought of wanting to get a new job? Is it the thought of wanting to get a girlfriend? Those are three very plausible questions that apply to my life right now but I can't tell which is the actual answer, and maybe I won't find out for a while.

Other than that, the coding journey continues and personal projects are just on the horizon. Coming up with ideas will be somewhat difficult but gemini will be a good helping hand for that. I'm thinking of something golf/tennis wise and probably something in the water industry because that might help me transition over to get a job in the chemical industry.

New update next week when I'm in Texas. There might not be a lot of coding/updating due to the long hours, but I will definitely update on the experience in the lab.

Toodaloo.

# Progress 7/21

I'm in Texas now helping out with a chemical plant that is providing water to a carbon capture plant that will remove CO2 emissions from the atmosphere (kind of cool). I thought that the hours were going to be long and lots of lab testing, but they have kind of been the opposite. I've had a lot of free time to do whatever I want and I probably did a total of 3 tests so far, which isn't anything super exciting. I've had a decent amount of time to code too, so I've been putting in an hour or two a day just to keep up with what I'm learning since I don't want to forget anything throughout a whole week break.

What is cool is that I can see the reality of what happens in a chemical plant. There is always something going on and at any given moment a big error can happen that'll affect the future of the plant for weeks on end. It's how the engineers and operators adapt to these changes is what makes up a great team, but at the same time it makes a gruesome project and creates long working hours. It's something that I probably wouldn't be interested in for the future, so I'm fortunate to have experienced this in real time. Also, seeing our technology work is kind of cool, because I was the one designing them back in the office.

Big news too... my old manager called me and let me know that there is a job opening on his team. He asked if I was still interested in a position like that and I confirmed with him that I would love to come back to project engineering, so I could technically be getting a promotion within the next month. I don't want to be super optimistic yet because I need to appreciate the job I have now and enjoy the experience I am getting throughout this rotational program, but I would be extremely happy to go back to the first rotation where I really enjoyed what I did and got along with a lot of the people in the other office. The lab has been quite lonely sometimes and I am missing that part of socializing that I'm used to. With a lot of introverted-type people, the lab doesn't have a super exciting work environment and if all goes well, my mood might change and I might have more joy in life just because of the better environment.

Coding wise, I am on the last chapter before neural networks, and once I complete that, like I said before, I am going to compile all the functions and different variations of the methods into a single notebook so whenever I want to use one of the methods/algorithms, I can go to this notebook and start from there. I don't want to have to memorize all of them, but eventually I probably will if I am using them all the time. I want to categorize them based on classification or regression, and even different use cases per category since I am going to look at new datasets on Kaggle to start practicing with all these new methods that I'm learning. Eventually, I'll tackle neural networks, but I want to have a really good understanding of when to choose what model and why I chose it/why is it appropriate to choose the model I did.

The learning continues within work/coding, and I'm excited for the future.
